---
title: "Beauty"
date: 2022-04-03T00:00:51-07:00
draft: false
---

In the past weeks I’ve been meditating on the beauty of God’s design for certain things that He has ordained and created. His purposes when glanced at can seem to be meaningless or even wrong to some people, but the more I study the Word of God and hear His Word being preached on certain topics, the more I can not deny how His ways are so loving and good. That our God even delighted in the creation of these things and how He does such things not just for the sake of because he can, but with intent and purpose that His glory be shown to the ends of the earth and beyond. Here I will share some of the things that I have been learning through different readings or sermons.

The first thing is the beauty within the creation of man and woman and their roles in God’s kingdom. Even from the beginning the creation of God’s people in His image, unlike the other beasts of the world, was very good (Genesis 1:26-31). As image bearers of God, we share two divine qualities that we are able to manifest His glory in outward expression of the essence of who God is, Psalm 8:5 and that we are collectively able to reflect the unity of the trinity in the context of marriage through the joining of two souls (Genesis 1). I will say that the topic of gender and different sex attraction is not an idea that I am going to explore in this post but is important to understanding why God designed things the way they are. However, understanding these two qualities that we are blessed with helps us to understand why certain things are wrong and right in the eyes of God and that is something that I am not going to be focusing on in this post. But going back to the topic, His plan for His people did not just stop at the spectacle of their creation, but their roles as image bearers and reflectors of God as they complement each other in marriage. 

Understanding the fact that we are created with a purpose and that we are image bearers of the creator leads us to know that participating in these qualities of God gives us intrinsic value, in both sexes having equal value in the eyes of God. When thinking about the idea of marriage, it can seem that one sex has more value than the other, with the roles of submission given to the woman and leadership given to the man being counter to this thought. Why must I submit to this man who is not worthy of submission, why must I lead this woman who I don’t want to lead. The thought of submission does not imply value either since Christ submits to the Father but they are both God. The purposes of these commands is not because one sex is superior tothe other, it is to reflect how Christ loves the church in these roles.

The man being the head of the relationship reflects Christ being the head of the church and the husband is to love his wife just as Christ loves the church. He is to lead using his power to serve others not himself, to not lead as an oppressive dictator who misuses his power, but as an imitation of Christ who displayed leadership through service and sacrifice. True leadership was exemplified on the cross, where Christ died, that we may decrease so He may increase. In submitting to her husband, the wife is ultimately submitting to the Lord, not because of who her husband is but because of who Christ is and how worthy He is of submitting to. We won’t submit if we do not deem Christ to be worthy of it (1 Peter 3:1-2). The marriage relationship is very similar to that of figure skating which sums up the relationship in a very poetic way. The duo dance beautifully together, having different moves to compliment each other, one not outshining the other. Both have their distinct roles and one could not function well in the dance without the other. The man uses his strength to lift the woman into the air, using his power to lift up and not oppress; and while the woman is in the air, all eyes are on her not the man, as she is able to display the glory of the Lord. 

Though I learned most of this from the pulpit, I was able to have a conversation with an older sister who was married who shared about her relationship with her husband. Although I have not known them for very long, I could see how even their marriage relationship was reflective of Christ in the way her husband was able to care for her specifically while not caudling her or being overbearing but being someone who leads with integrity and love. And that she had so much joy in being able to serve her husband whether it be cooking for him or being there with him while practicing for praise. She shared that even as she was talking about her husband that she would start crying and that he would do the same, that Christ was able to redeem two sinners, worthy of nothing, to bepeople who are unified with the sole desire of loving Christ.
Thinking and hearing about how beautiful the marriage relationship is makes me truly in awe of how God even allows us to reflect Him and His Gospel through the joining of two souls. May our hope not be fixed on finding the perfect match or even someone close to that, but may we fix our hope so closely on Christ and may that lead us to finding our compliment. 

The second thing is the beauty in our depravity. Most people today will probably believe that they are pretty well off and that they don’t need saving from anything, that they can in fact save themselves through hard work and perseverance. They believe that this world is fixable, that we are good people and that everything will be okay. The truth of the matter is that this world is not this way and it is in fact the complete opposite. That we as people are utterly depraved meaning that we are messed up beyond fixing, that we are dead sinners unable to help ourselves and there is no hope for us. This is a scary thought but it is true, Ephesians 2:1-8 talks about how this world is dead, that we are by nature dead and as dead people there is nothing we can do to not be dead. We may say to ourselves we are not that bad, I am not a murderer, I am not a rapist, I am not human trafficker. These people need to be locked up and die, I am not like these people. But when we see the depth of sin within others, it is the depth of sin within us, we are the person that is deserving of death, we are the worst of the worst (1 Timothy 1:15). This is us. 

We then shift from looking at the accused to the judge. We must start with understanding the authority of God’s Word and why it is authoritative. If God is who He says He is, if He is the creator God who created us, this world, this universe, time, and space, and who is omnipresent, omniscient, and omnipotent, then who are we before a being like this? If God is God, by nature He is the creator, He sets what is right and wrong, He gets to do what He wants. (John 1:3) If the Bible is truly God’s Word, then regardless of whether we like it or not, it is the truth and that is it. We can not argue with what the objective truth is for it is set and is higher than us. That God is not just a God who sits. We do not just end at God just being a creator but a judge since He created the standard of what is good and what is evil, He would be a bad judge to let evil go unpunished. If a criminal who killed our whole family was put on trial and the judge let him walk free, we would be shouting, yelling at this unjust God that allows evil to walk freely. God is judge and we are to be judged. And in this courtroom we are people sitting on the defendant seat interrogating God of what is good and bad. We arrogantly say “God how can you send people to hell.” But if we truly understand how depraved we are and how God is so God over everything, we begin to ask how God can even let one person go to Heaven. This is who God is.

With understanding who we are and understanding who God is, we then see how deserving we are of the punishment of sin. We are so deserving of this judgment and in our deadness we ourselves can not bring ourselves to do any good or come anywhere close to being able to be good in the eyes of the Lord. That makes the fact that sinners are able to be saved such a marvelous revelation. That in our depraved state, like ants to be stepped on when entering a house, we see the wonders of how God calls us to come (Romans 7:24-25). That salvation is simple, the dead are made alive, the blind are made to see, Isaiah 42:6-7, not as we once were. Our flesh goes after the world but the hearts of the believers hate it and the more we see that we want the world the more we hate it. We see reality differently, we don't want these things anymore, all we want is Christ. God beckons us to come to Him, He is calling us to come and repent and seek Christ, that it has already been finished on the cross (John 3:16). This is the Gospel. 

The beauty of both redemption of sinners and the creation of man and woman are both things I continue to marvel at as I understand the depths of my own sin and the purposes of marriage which I twist in my own mind. That we were created for such good, to reflect His glory but we distort it in so many ways seeking to give glory to beings that are so unworthy of it. And the fact that God does not wipe us from this world for doing so continues to baffle me as I can barely even have patience when someone is mildly infuriating. This spurs me on to deeply love and worship the God who has created all this good and may that be something that you may meditate on as well. 

