---
title: "God's love"
date: 2022-02-28T00:00:51-07:00
draft: false
---

The love of God is a concept that everyone can get behind but very often we understand far too little of the implications behind what that looks like. We sing songs like “Jesus loves me yes I know, for the Bible tells me so” and carry on with life thinking we have this radiant beam that is on us which will grant us happy days. As someone who has grown up hearing about God’s love for us, it is easy to remember the greatest act of love God displayed for us on the cross and to be so humbled and drawn to tears by it. This ultimate act of love is not the only instant that God shows love to us, although we are altogether undeserving of any love from God. The constant love that God has for us as His children, discipling and wanting the best for us was something I knew but tended to forget or overshadow; through thinking soley about the cross.

Pastor Peter Chung’s sermon on God’s love this past searchlight made many allusions to his love for his children which made me think about God’s love for me and the love my parents had for me as well. His first point on how fathers discipline their children in love makes complete sense and anything besides discipline would be an unloving act. The recent culture of this world has shamed parents for using physical acts of punishment, painting it as abuse. Many articles can be seen of the negative effects of spanking leading to the kid developing anger or negative views of authority. 
I think back to the times I was placed in time out and remember how I very much did deserve it and that it was for my own good. This view of parents not disciplining their children or letting them learn how to navigate what is right and wrong on their own is similar to that of letting a child pilot a spacecraft and if he crashes he crashes, children are very impressionable at this stage and as parents it is loving to teach them what is right and wrong. How great is it that we have a Heavenly Father that raises us up in discipline for our own good out of love as he does it perfectly. (Hebrews 12:7-11)

The second point covered how fathers desire to see their children love what they love and hate what they hate. My parents were divorced and I spent little time with my father let alone my step father. I can still see the ways I have grown to love what they love and hate what they hate, although these are trivial things like good food and supernatural shows. I never played any sports growing up like basketball or baseball but now I look back and wonder why my step dad who watches every sport with rather strong commentary, did not care for me to watch with him. I wonder why my dad would pick me up to eat lunch with him only to have me sit on the couch on my phone while watching Chinese music with his headphones in. I wish I was more in their image, that they would’ve brought me into loving what they love. My earthly fathers may have not wanted this but I know with confidence that my heavenly father wants these things. 
That my God hates sin so I must hate sin, that my God loves Himself perfectly so I shall love God with all my heart, soul and mind. But I know even in my flesh that this is not what I would have wanted, Isaiah 55:8-9 says this “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, Nor are your ways My ways,” declares the Lord.” I love myself too much at times, more than others almost all the time. I know my sin is evil and God hates it but I see pleasure in it. I am reminded that all sin is foolishness and that the joy of obedience of God outweighs the pleasure of the flesh every time. But my flesh is strong and I am weak, but my God is stronger. 

The third and final point that PPC made was that fathers delight in their children and want to give them the very best of everything. Too often do I not come to God with my request because I fear that I would turn Him into a wishing well. Too often do I think that if I desire something and trust in God’s sovereignty, that He will just accomplish what will happen. Not only do I fail to see God as Father through forgetting his discipline, forgetting to love what He loves and hate what He hates but I also forget that I can run to Him and make my requests known, knowing that if I ask for blessings He is not a God that will give me curses. I hope to shape my prayers more around this aspect knowing that I can come to a Father with everything and knowing that He wants to give me everything, but withholding it for my own good. That I want to be faithful and obedient always, and I know that He wants that too but He will grant that to me in time, that he is withholding even the blessings of Heaven as long as I live on this Earth, that I may continually long for them. Luke 11:9-13

One of the other points that PPC made was how God delights in us. I always dwell on the fact that God does not need us as humans, that He is the only independent being. This leads me to forget the fact that He does love us in the day to day, that yes he showed the culmination of His love to us on that cross but daily I forget that he delights in my actions. His constant love for us was illustrated well in the way that PPC just loves seeing his kids do weird things or loves the smell of their hair or loves the way they run to him when he is home. Just like in the ways that He loves it when we pray to Him in desperation, when we strive for holiness and when we run to Him for comfort. As someone who is a people pleaser secretly in some regards, I can rest in the fact that there is nothing that I can do to earn the delight of God but there are things that I do that most certainly he delights in. God delights in His children, may His joy be our joy. Psalm 147:11

In all these points that were illustrated, PPC also tries to emulate these things with his very own children. He disciplines them, wants them to grow up loving Christ more than everything and wants them to be all of the best things that are in himself that God gave him. The way PPC loves his kids is a kind of love I hope and pray that I would be able to emulate if I ever become a father. That a father is very involved in the upbringing of their children not because it’s the right thing to do, but because a father loves his children. That as a man though his love seemed so pure and selfless, PPC is still a sinner that is far from loving perfectly. Knowing that God loves us in this way, that He is our Father in Heaven, who is good, grants us the ultimate comfort. God’s love for us is so real and constant, he never relents thinking about us, working in us and loving us. We as people are so limited in scope and selfish with our love. We love people only when they love us, loving them when we spend time with them, loving them when it is easy. God’s love is perfect, and knowing that I have received that and that can not be taken away is the greatest joy I can have. 

Throughout this whole message my eyes were watery. It made me ponder a lot about the ways my parents loved me. How it was so selfish, so tainted, that I know they loved me and even in the way they showed it it hurt sometimes. Yes I had to sit in the corner and cried while doing math and although they loved me while doing it, humans can not display love perfectly, it will always be tainted and flawed in some way because of our sin. How sometimes they didn’t love me and let me just be. While hearing about how my brothers’ Christian parents raised them and showed them what it meant to follow Christ in the home, my heart longed for that. But I know that despite the love a parent has for their child, the love that God has for us is far surpassing even that.

My parents are unbelievers and all I could think about was how can I love them now. Part of me doesn’t want to love them, doesn’t want to call them, doesn’t even want to pray. I forget about them, I don’t want to be home when I am back in norcal. But the transformative work in the Spirit causes me to ask myself, how can I be someone who doesn't love them. If my love was based on me, I would love no one, but the greatest thing is that my love is because of God and how he works in my heart to love, making myself less. I went to call my mom after and I know we didn’t talk for long, but my heart yearns for them. That they may know the love that I have tasted.