---
title: "Thoughts on Moving Back Home"
date: 2022-02-23T00:00:51-07:00
draft: false
---

I’ve been asked a good amount of times what my plans are post grad: if I would stay down in Irvine or if I would go back home to San Francisco. Job opportunities and potential careers  are always in the far back of my mind, so I give everyone the generic answer of going into research or starting a PHD program, usually something along those lines. Sure, I’m fine with doing it but if something else comes up, I’m completely open to taking it. I’m grateful for the great number of opportunities I have as a biology major. One of the possible routes that I am leaning more towards is graduate school; I guess wherever I am accepted is wherever I will go, unless I decide to only apply regionally. My thoughts on the subject of plans after college consider job opportunities the least, but I trust that God will provide a future based on what He calls me to do. Most of all, my thoughts regarding this subject reside with the acceptance of where God is calling me, especially in terms of ministry and what most glorifies Him.

I would definitely always say I want to stay in SoCal, specifically Irvine. I’ve been so incredibly blessed by the ways God has grown me through Berean and the ways He has sanctified me through living with people in my class. My love for both the church and God has never been greater and I know that all these things have been graciously added to me. I feel so blessed all the time with random moments of intentional conversations with brothers and sisters that truly spur me on and point me back to Christ. The late talks or walks or drives are things that I cherish. These people know me and I know them and we’ve walked together for what seems like years, but for me it has really only been one year so far since I came back from quarantine in NorCal. The joys that my brothers and sisters experience are my joys and the pain that they experience are my pains. I can see how staying in SoCal, faithfully serving my church and my family and seeking Him in Spirit and in truth is good. I thank God for growing me down here, for the incredible teaching through the faithful leaders of my church, for teaching me what true obedience and surrender looks like. I know that God will be pleased with the time in SoCal if I stay. 

I see a need for going home, though. My family members both on my mom's side and my dad's side are non-Christians and God has continued to soften my heart to love and witness to them. Through all the distrust and pain they have put me through it was easy to neglect them, to not call, to not go home for breaks and never be home. I am not the best son and I am nowhere near a good one. Sure I was obedient and I got good grades and I made them proud but the hardness of my heart through experiencing their sin has caused me to resent them when I was in high school and just entering college. I could not muster in myself a love for them through me and it is only God who has softened my hearts towards my family. I want them to know what I know. I want them to taste what I have tasted. The joy and knowledge of my salvation can not be contained in me and to do so would be the most selfish act I could partake in. The call for the Gospel has been especially on my mind this school year as well for many reasons.

Fall quarter of my junior year I got a call. My dad called me and told me that my grandma had gotten lung cancer. My heart was heavy and I didn’t know what to do. She doesn’t speak English, and her mind was fleeting and she lived far even from my home church. I felt out of options and I felt so hopeless of getting her the Gospel. I trusted God but it was not a bold trust in all circumstances; there seemed to be no solution in sight. As I continued to share this struggle with people down here, an idea occurred to bring my friend from Berean who lived in Sacramento with me to share the Gospel. My parents were ok with it and we were prepping and praying. The day comes and I realize she lived an hour away from my grandma and it wouldn’t be possible to pick her up, come back, drop her back off, and come back only to go back to San Francisco. I ended up calling her instead but my grandma didn’t want to listen.
I felt hopeless again for a few weeks until the idea arose to write her a letter sharing the Gospel in Chinese. Her condition got worse and so I went up to visit her and my family.

There was a time I was with my grandma for about two hours, and in that time I felt urgency for the Gospel has never been greater. She was on morphine and was asleep for the whole duration of my visit. I knew that she might not be consciously able to hear the Gospel or the things that I was telling her, but I wanted to be faithful to the call that God has given me so I desperately prayed, read and sang. In all this God is so sovereign and so good in allowing my whole family to hear the Gospel through the letter I wrote while being back. My dad, stepmom, auntie and grandpa are all people who need the Gospel.

That following Sunday I was back in Irvine, and I heard about someone who was visiting for a wedding. She went to Berean during her college years at UCI and moved back to NorCal and started going to BMC, Berean Mission Church. While talking to people who were her freshman when she was a senior in college, they mentioned that she had a long blog post about her reason for going back up to Norcal and how it was the talk of the town at the time. This stuck in my head while I carried on with the day with the brothers of my class coming together to film a part of our brother and sister appreciation video. The day was full of this great sense of unity, going to church together, filming together, getting Omomo together and eating hotpot together at my apartment. The living room was packed with fifteen or so people conversing, cooking and eating. I found myself on my couch and remembered the infamous blog post that I wanted to read. I read it and found myself thinking all over again about my current situation. It felt like what she was writing about was the situation that I was in: stuck between time spent in Irvine which would lead to so much good down here, all the growth, discipleship and encouragement of being around like minded people who all love the Gospel, or going home which would also be good of spending time ministering to my family. I know that I would strive to glorify God in both options and know that God will use me greatly here or at home. 

When everyone left it was just me and my roommate, he read the blog post as well and I told him that I didn’t want to leave this. It felt like home here. I found myself not wanting to go back to NorCal, to my old church, not wanting to restart new relationships, not wanting to be with people who I thought took the goodness of God for granted. I found myself idolizing the life here and the people here, I did not want to surrender that and I knew that. I realized this and had to repent. I was seeing the things that God blessed me with, the people, the work, the knowledge as things that were more important than simply obeying. I was starting to tear up at losing some of the things that I loved the most and I had to wrestle if I would be able to truly surrender. 

My roommate left me and I was alone sitting on my couch. I hadn't read my Bible yet that day so I began reading and I believed that what God was doing in Isaiah specifically the next chapter would have no application to what I was meditating on. That the prophecy of Egypt and Ethiopia would have nothing to say about my own sin. But although I am not an Israelite during this time, I know that the overall characteristics and teaching of God is something that He still shows to us today, as an immutable God. 

In Isaiah 20, Judah has been relying on the two mighty nations to protect them but the Lord sends Isaiah to Egypt as a sign to them of the humiliation that is to come in how the Assyrians will take them captive. Judah expected these two nations to be their glory but God judged these two to show how foolish it was of Judah to not place their hope and trust solely on God. The nation of Judah then began to be trapped in between the two larger nations Egypt and Assyria where there is no escape possible, except in God. My true heart was revealed and rebuked. In my own sin, my trust was in things that were not God, they were in my church, and the community of it. I was in awe of the way God continues to correct my paths and draw me back to Him and Him alone. I had to repent of my pride for thinking myself above others for thinking I was better because I went to Berean, having to remember that growth is not from the works of man. I had to repent of the ways that my trust was not completely in Him and how I am so wavering as a human to lose trust. I pray that in all these things I may trust in Him simply trust Him with every part of me.

I know that God will do whatever will give Him the most glory and I pray that I may be able to humbly submit to His will for me. As it is in 1 Peter 1:6-7, that even in the meditation and thoughts about what will happen, I pray that I may do it with joy that in all circumstances I will rejoice in the Lord.
